Fixes/EfficientAnimationManager/README.md, before:

# Efficient Animation Manager for RPG Maker MZ

![RPG Maker MZ](https://img.shields.io/badge/RPG%20Maker-MZ-blue)
![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-1.0.0-green)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-CC%20BY%204.0-orange)

A performance-optimized plugin that manages multiple animated objects (flames, water, crystals, etc.) using a single centralized update loop instead of resource-intensive parallel events.


## 📝 License & Credits

### License
This project is licensed under the **Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License**.

**You are free to:**
- ✅ Share — copy and redistribute in any medium or format
- ✅ Adapt — remix, transform, and build upon the material  
- ✅ Commercial Use — use for commercial projects

**Under the following terms:**
- 📝 **Attribution** — You must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made.

### Credits
- **Author**: Alexandros Panagiotakopoulos
- **Website**: [alexandrospanag.github.io](https://alexandrospanag.github.io)
- **Framework**: RPG Maker MZ Plugin System
- **Technologies**: JavaScript ES6+, RPG Maker MZ Core Scripts
- **Inspiration**: Solving the parallel event performance bottleneck for environmental animations


## ✨ Features

- 🔥 **Unlimited Animations** - Manage hundreds of animated objects without performance loss
- ⚡ **Zero Parallel Events** - Single centralized update loop replaces dozens of parallel processes
- 🎨 **Universal Support** - Works with flames, torches, water, waterfalls, crystals, magical effects, and more
- ⏱️ **Independent Timing** - Each object can have its own animation speed
- 🎭 **Offset Control** - Stagger animation starts for natural variety
- 💡 **Optional Light Effects** - Built-in opacity pulsing for glowing objects
- 📊 **Global Speed Control** - Adjust all animations at once via plugin parameters
- 🎯 **Simple Setup** - Just one note tag per event - no scripting required

## 📋 Requirements

- **RPG Maker MZ** (Version 1.0.0 or higher)
- Character sprites with multiple animation frames (horizontal layout)

## 🚀 Installation

### Step 1: Install the Plugin

1. Download `EfficientAnimationManager.js`
2. Copy it to your project's plugin folder:
   ```
   YourProject/js/plugins/EfficientAnimationManager.js
   ```
3. Open RPG Maker MZ
4. Go to **Tools → Plugin Manager**
5. Click **Add** or double-click an empty slot
6. Select `EfficientAnimationManager` from the list
7. Ensure the plugin is **ON** (checkbox enabled)
8. Click **OK**

### Step 2: Configure Plugin Parameters (Optional)

Open the plugin in Plugin Manager to adjust:

- **Global Speed Multiplier**: Scale all animation speeds (default: 1.0)
  - `0.5` = Half speed (slower)
  - `1.0` = Normal speed
  - `2.0` = Double speed (faster)

- **Enable Light Effects**: Toggle opacity pulsing for glowing objects (default: false)

### Step 3: Set Up Your Animated Objects

1. Create an event on your map
2. **DO NOT** set it to Parallel Process or Autorun
3. Set the event graphic to your animated sprite
4. Add a note tag to the event's **Note** field:
   ```
   <animate:speed>
   ```
   or with offset:
   ```
   <animate:speed:offset>
   ```

## 🎨 Sprite Format

Animated sprites should follow RPG Maker's standard character format:

- **Layout**: Horizontal frames (3 frames minimum)
- **Animation**: Cycles through frames left to right
- **Compatibility**: Works with standard character sheet format (4 columns × 2 rows)

## 🎯 Usage

### Basic Setup

**Example 1: Simple Torch**
```
Event: Torch
Graphic: !Flame.png (or any animated sprite)
Note: <animate:15>
```

**Example 2: Waterfall with Stagger**
```
Event: Waterfall
Graphic: Waterfall.png
Note: <animate:12:5>
```

### Speed Values Guide

| Speed | Animation Rate | Best For |
|-------|---------------|----------|
| 8-10 | Very Fast | Rapid flames, sparkles |
| 12-15 | Fast | Torches, small fires |
| 16-20 | Medium | Water, crystals |
| 22-30 | Slow | Lava, large waterfalls |
| 30+ | Very Slow | Pulsing lights, slow magic |

> **Lower values = faster animation**

### Offset Values

Offsets stagger the animation start to create natural variety:

```
<animate:15:0>   - Starts immediately
<animate:15:5>   - Starts 5 frames later
<animate:15:10>  - Starts 10 frames later
```

**Use Case**: Multiple torches in a dungeon
```
Torch 1: <animate:15:0>
Torch 2: <animate:15:3>
Torch 3: <animate:15:7>
Torch 4: <animate:15:12>
```
Result: Flames flicker independently for a more organic look!

## 💡 Practical Examples

### Dungeon with Many Torches
**Problem**: 50 torches using parallel events = massive lag

**Solution**:
```
Each torch event:
- No parallel process
- Note: <animate:15:random_offset>
```
Result: Smooth 60 FPS with all torches animating!

### Magical Crystal Cave
```
Blue Crystal (fast pulse): <animate:10>
Green Crystal (medium): <animate:18:5>
Purple Crystal (slow glow): <animate:25:10>
```

### Waterfall Area
```
Main Waterfall: <animate:12>
Side Stream 1: <animate:12:4>
Side Stream 2: <animate:12:8>
Mist Effect: <animate:20>
```

### Campfire Scene
```
Large Fire: <animate:14>
Ember 1: <animate:8:3>
Ember 2: <animate:8:7>
Smoke: <animate:22>
```

## 🔧 Advanced Usage

### Global Speed Adjustment

Adjust the plugin parameter **Global Speed Multiplier**:
- `0.5` = All animations run at half speed (better for cinematic scenes)
- `2.0` = All animations run at double speed (better for action-packed areas)

### Light Effect Toggle

Enable **Enable Light Effects** in plugin parameters for:
- Subtle opacity pulsing (255 → 235 → 255)
- Creates a "glowing" effect
- Perfect for magical objects, torches, and crystals

### Performance Comparison

| Setup | CPU Usage | Frame Rate |
|-------|-----------|------------|
| 100 Parallel Events | ~85% | 15-30 FPS |
| This Plugin | ~5% | 60 FPS |

**Why?** One centralized loop updates all objects instead of 100 separate processes!

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Problem: Animation not playing

**Solution:**
- Verify the note tag format: `<animate:15>` (no spaces, lowercase)
- Ensure event is NOT set to Parallel Process
- Check that the sprite has multiple frames

### Problem: Animation too fast/slow

**Solution:**
- Adjust the speed value in the note tag (higher = slower)
- Or adjust the Global Speed Multiplier in plugin parameters

### Problem: All animations sync together

**Solution:**
- Add offset values to stagger them: `<animate:15:5>`
- Use different offsets for each event

### Problem: Performance still poor

**Solution:**
- Ensure you removed ALL parallel events for animations
- Check for other plugins causing conflicts
- Verify events don't have "Autorun" trigger

### Problem: Plugin conflicts

**Solution:**
- Load this plugin AFTER any core battle system modifications
- Check plugin order in Plugin Manager
- Disable other animation plugins temporarily

## 📊 Performance Tips

### Best Practices

✅ **DO:**
- Use this plugin for ALL repeating environmental animations
- Vary offsets for natural randomness
- Test different speed values to find the perfect look
- Group similar objects with similar speeds

❌ **DON'T:**
- Mix parallel events with this plugin for the same purpose
- Use extremely low speed values (< 5) for many objects
- Forget to remove old parallel event pages

### Optimization Guide

**For 50+ Animated Objects:**
- Use speed values 12-20 (moderate animation)
- Disable Light Effects unless needed
- Use offsets sparingly (every 3-5 objects)

**For 100+ Animated Objects:**
- Use speed values 15-25 (slower animation)
- Keep Light Effects disabled
- Consider grouping objects by area

## 🎬 Example Project Structure

```
YourProject/
├── js/
│   └── plugins/
│       └── EfficientAnimationManager.js
├── img/
│   └── characters/
│       ├── !Flame.png           # Torch animations
│       ├── !Waterfall.png       # Water animations
│       ├── !Crystal.png         # Crystal pulse
│       └── !MagicEffect.png     # Magical animations
└── data/
    └── MapXXX.json              # Contains animated events
```

## 🎓 How It Works

### Traditional Approach (Slow)
```
Torch 1 (Parallel Event) → Update Loop
Torch 2 (Parallel Event) → Update Loop
Torch 3 (Parallel Event) → Update Loop
...
Torch 100 (Parallel Event) → Update Loop
```
**Result**: 100 separate processes eating CPU

### This Plugin (Fast)
```
Single Master Loop → Updates ALL Torches At Once
```
**Result**: One efficient process, zero lag!

## 📚 Additional Resources

- [RPG Maker MZ Documentation](https://www.rpgmakerweb.com/support/products/rpg-maker-mz)
- [RPG Maker Forums](https://forums.rpgmakerweb.com/)
- [Plugin Development Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xz7kB1g_z_eTvLxNzLWLp7eKPKrO9yVK7S7i0f1Tq8E/)


## 🤝 Compatible Plugins

This plugin works alongside:
- ✅ Lighting plugins (YEP, Khas, etc.)
- ✅ Tile passability plugins
- ✅ Custom sprite plugins
- ✅ Weather effect plugins

Ensure this loads AFTER core system modifications.

---

*Stop the lag, keep the magic!* ✨

Commit message:

Update README with version and changelog
Updated version number to 1.0.1 and added changelog.

Fixes/EfficientAnimationManager/README.md, after:

# Efficient Animation Manager for RPG Maker MZ

![RPG Maker MZ](https://img.shields.io/badge/RPG%20Maker-MZ-blue)
![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-1.0.1-green)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-CC%20BY%204.0-orange)

A performance-optimized plugin that manages multiple animated objects (flames, water, crystals, etc.) using a single centralized update loop instead of resource-intensive parallel events.

## ⚙️ Changelog
### Version: 1.0.1 - Fixed an issue causing all animations to freeze.


## 📝 License & Credits

### License
This project is licensed under the **Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License**.

**You are free to:**
- ✅ Share — copy and redistribute in any medium or format
- ✅ Adapt — remix, transform, and build upon the material  
- ✅ Commercial Use — use for commercial projects

**Under the following terms:**
- 📝 **Attribution** — You must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made.

### Credits
- **Author**: Alexandros Panagiotakopoulos
- **Website**: [alexandrospanag.github.io](https://alexandrospanag.github.io)
- **Framework**: RPG Maker MZ Plugin System
- **Technologies**: JavaScript ES6+, RPG Maker MZ Core Scripts
- **Inspiration**: Solving the parallel event performance bottleneck for environmental animations


## ✨ Features

- 🔥 **Unlimited Animations** - Manage hundreds of animated objects without performance loss
- ⚡ **Zero Parallel Events** - Single centralized update loop replaces dozens of parallel processes
- 🎨 **Universal Support** - Works with flames, torches, water, waterfalls, crystals, magical effects, and more
- ⏱️ **Independent Timing** - Each object can have its own animation speed
- 🎭 **Offset Control** - Stagger animation starts for natural variety
- 💡 **Optional Light Effects** - Built-in opacity pulsing for glowing objects
- 📊 **Global Speed Control** - Adjust all animations at once via plugin parameters
- 🎯 **Simple Setup** - Just one note tag per event - no scripting required

## 📋 Requirements

- **RPG Maker MZ** (Version 1.0.0 or higher)
- Character sprites with multiple animation frames (horizontal layout)

## 🚀 Installation

### Step 1: Install the Plugin

1. Download `EfficientAnimationManager.js`
2. Copy it to your project's plugin folder:
   ```
   YourProject/js/plugins/EfficientAnimationManager.js
   ```
3. Open RPG Maker MZ
4. Go to **Tools → Plugin Manager**
5. Click **Add** or double-click an empty slot
6. Select `EfficientAnimationManager` from the list
7. Ensure the plugin is **ON** (checkbox enabled)
8. Click **OK**

### Step 2: Configure Plugin Parameters (Optional)

Open the plugin in Plugin Manager to adjust:

- **Global Speed Multiplier**: Scale all animation speeds (default: 1.0)
  - `0.5` = Half speed (slower)
  - `1.0` = Normal speed
  - `2.0` = Double speed (faster)

- **Enable Light Effects**: Toggle opacity pulsing for glowing objects (default: false)

### Step 3: Set Up Your Animated Objects

1. Create an event on your map
2. **DO NOT** set it to Parallel Process or Autorun
3. Set the event graphic to your animated sprite
4. Add a note tag to the event's **Note** field:
   ```
   <animate:speed>
   ```
   or with offset:
   ```
   <animate:speed:offset>
   ```

## 🎨 Sprite Format

Animated sprites should follow RPG Maker's standard character format:

- **Layout**: Horizontal frames (3 frames minimum)
- **Animation**: Cycles through frames left to right
- **Compatibility**: Works with standard character sheet format (4 columns × 2 rows)

## 🎯 Usage

### Basic Setup

**Example 1: Simple Torch**
```
Event: Torch
Graphic: !Flame.png (or any animated sprite)
Note: <animate:15>
```

**Example 2: Waterfall with Stagger**
```
Event: Waterfall
Graphic: Waterfall.png
Note: <animate:12:5>
```

### Speed Values Guide

| Speed | Animation Rate | Best For |
|-------|---------------|----------|
| 8-10 | Very Fast | Rapid flames, sparkles |
| 12-15 | Fast | Torches, small fires |
| 16-20 | Medium | Water, crystals |
| 22-30 | Slow | Lava, large waterfalls |
| 30+ | Very Slow | Pulsing lights, slow magic |

> **Lower values = faster animation**

### Offset Values

Offsets stagger the animation start to create natural variety:

```
<animate:15:0>   - Starts immediately
<animate:15:5>   - Starts 5 frames later
<animate:15:10>  - Starts 10 frames later
```

**Use Case**: Multiple torches in a dungeon
```
Torch 1: <animate:15:0>
Torch 2: <animate:15:3>
Torch 3: <animate:15:7>
Torch 4: <animate:15:12>
```
Result: Flames flicker independently for a more organic look!

## 💡 Practical Examples

### Dungeon with Many Torches
**Problem**: 50 torches using parallel events = massive lag

**Solution**:
```
Each torch event:
- No parallel process
- Note: <animate:15:random_offset>
```
Result: Smooth 60 FPS with all torches animating!

### Magical Crystal Cave
```
Blue Crystal (fast pulse): <animate:10>
Green Crystal (medium): <animate:18:5>
Purple Crystal (slow glow): <animate:25:10>
```

### Waterfall Area
```
Main Waterfall: <animate:12>
Side Stream 1: <animate:12:4>
Side Stream 2: <animate:12:8>
Mist Effect: <animate:20>
```

### Campfire Scene
```
Large Fire: <animate:14>
Ember 1: <animate:8:3>
Ember 2: <animate:8:7>
Smoke: <animate:22>
```

## 🔧 Advanced Usage

### Global Speed Adjustment

Adjust the plugin parameter **Global Speed Multiplier**:
- `0.5` = All animations run at half speed (better for cinematic scenes)
- `2.0` = All animations run at double speed (better for action-packed areas)

### Light Effect Toggle

Enable **Enable Light Effects** in plugin parameters for:
- Subtle opacity pulsing (255 → 235 → 255)
- Creates a "glowing" effect
- Perfect for magical objects, torches, and crystals

### Performance Comparison

| Setup | CPU Usage | Frame Rate |
|-------|-----------|------------|
| 100 Parallel Events | ~85% | 15-30 FPS |
| This Plugin | ~5% | 60 FPS |

**Why?** One centralized loop updates all objects instead of 100 separate processes!

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Problem: Animation not playing

**Solution:**
- Verify the note tag format: `<animate:15>` (no spaces, lowercase)
- Ensure event is NOT set to Parallel Process
- Check that the sprite has multiple frames

### Problem: Animation too fast/slow

**Solution:**
- Adjust the speed value in the note tag (higher = slower)
- Or adjust the Global Speed Multiplier in plugin parameters

### Problem: All animations sync together

**Solution:**
- Add offset values to stagger them: `<animate:15:5>`
- Use different offsets for each event

### Problem: Performance still poor

**Solution:**
- Ensure you removed ALL parallel events for animations
- Check for other plugins causing conflicts
- Verify events don't have "Autorun" trigger

### Problem: Plugin conflicts

**Solution:**
- Load this plugin AFTER any core battle system modifications
- Check plugin order in Plugin Manager
- Disable other animation plugins temporarily

## 📊 Performance Tips

### Best Practices

✅ **DO:**
- Use this plugin for ALL repeating environmental animations
- Vary offsets for natural randomness
- Test different speed values to find the perfect look
- Group similar objects with similar speeds

❌ **DON'T:**
- Mix parallel events with this plugin for the same purpose
- Use extremely low speed values (< 5) for many objects
- Forget to remove old parallel event pages

### Optimization Guide

**For 50+ Animated Objects:**
- Use speed values 12-20 (moderate animation)
- Disable Light Effects unless needed
- Use offsets sparingly (every 3-5 objects)

**For 100+ Animated Objects:**
- Use speed values 15-25 (slower animation)
- Keep Light Effects disabled
- Consider grouping objects by area

## 🎬 Example Project Structure

```
YourProject/
├── js/
│   └── plugins/
│       └── EfficientAnimationManager.js
├── img/
│   └── characters/
│       ├── !Flame.png           # Torch animations
│       ├── !Waterfall.png       # Water animations
│       ├── !Crystal.png         # Crystal pulse
│       └── !MagicEffect.png     # Magical animations
└── data/
    └── MapXXX.json              # Contains animated events
```

## 🎓 How It Works

### Traditional Approach (Slow)
```
Torch 1 (Parallel Event) → Update Loop
Torch 2 (Parallel Event) → Update Loop
Torch 3 (Parallel Event) → Update Loop
...
Torch 100 (Parallel Event) → Update Loop
```
**Result**: 100 separate processes eating CPU

### This Plugin (Fast)
```
Single Master Loop → Updates ALL Torches At Once
```
**Result**: One efficient process, zero lag!

## 📚 Additional Resources

- [RPG Maker MZ Documentation](https://www.rpgmakerweb.com/support/products/rpg-maker-mz)
- [RPG Maker Forums](https://forums.rpgmakerweb.com/)
- [Plugin Development Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xz7kB1g_z_eTvLxNzLWLp7eKPKrO9yVK7S7i0f1Tq8E/)


## 🤝 Compatible Plugins

This plugin works alongside:
- ✅ Lighting plugins (YEP, Khas, etc.)
- ✅ Tile passability plugins
- ✅ Custom sprite plugins
- ✅ Weather effect plugins

Ensure this loads AFTER core system modifications.

---

*Stop the lag, keep the magic!* ✨
