DevToolsManage/2.1.0/README.md, before:

# DevToolsManage.js - Complete Modernization Documentation
**Version 2.1.0 (2025-11-19)**

## Executive Summary
This document details the complete modernization and optimization of the DevToolsManage.js plugin for RPG Maker MZ, transforming legacy 2020-2021 JavaScript code into modern 2025 standards with enhanced performance, memory management, and maintainability.


## Additional note this warning: If you encounter:

DevTools failed to load SourceMap: Could not load content for chrome-extension://njgcanhfjdabfmnlmpmdedalocpafnhl/js/plugins/pixi-filters.js.map: System error: net::ERR_FILE_NOT_FOUND

This is a SourceMap warning that appears in the DevTools console. It's not actually an error - your code works fine. The browser is looking for .map files (which help with debugging minified code) but can't find them.

The code already has a solution built-in! Look at lines 417-424 in your file:
```javascript

SceneManager.suppressSourceMapWarnings = function() {
    // Suppress annoying SourceMap and WebGL warnings in DevTools
    const originalWarn = console.warn;
    const originalError = console.error;
    
    console.warn = function(...args) {
        const message = args.join(' ');
        if (message.includes('DevTools failed to load SourceMap') ||
```

This function is suppressing these warnings, and it's being called on line 410.

However, if you still see them, here's how to permanently disable SourceMap warnings in DevTools:

Open DevTools (F12)
Click the gear icon ⚙️ (Settings) in the top-right of DevTools
Under "Sources" section, uncheck:
✅ Enable JavaScript source maps
✅ Enable CSS source maps



---

## Table of Contents
1. [Version History & Major Updates](#version-history)
2. [Deprecated API Replacements](#deprecated-apis)
3. [Modern JavaScript Features Implemented](#modern-features)
4. [Memory Leak Fixes (v2.0.1)](#memory-fixes)
5. [Performance Optimizations](#performance)
6. [Code Quality Improvements](#code-quality)
7. [Removed Obsolete Code](#removed-code)
8. [Breaking Changes & Migration Guide](#breaking-changes)

---

## Version History & Major Updates {#version-history}

### v2.1.0 (2025-11-18) - Code Modernization
**Major Theme**: Updated to 2025 JavaScript standards, replaced deprecated Node.js APIs

**Key Changes**:
- Replaced all deprecated Node.js APIs with modern equivalents
- Implemented ES6+ features (optional chaining, nullish coalescing, destructuring)
- Enhanced async/await patterns for better performance
- Improved error handling and resource cleanup

### v2.0.1 (2025-11-15) - Memory & Performance Update
**Major Theme**: Fixed critical memory leaks and added proper cleanup methods

**Key Changes**:
- Added `cleanup()` method to GameNwWindow class
- Fixed event listener memory leaks
- Added proper window event handlers
- Implemented performance monitoring cleanup

### v1.3.0 (2025-11-01) - API Modernization
**Major Theme**: Modern NW.js API usage and UI improvements

---

## Deprecated API Replacements {#deprecated-apis}

### 1. **Node.js Module Access**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Deprecated in Node.js 14+)
const projectPath = path.dirname(process.mainModule.filename);

// ✅ NEW (Modern Standard)
const projectPath = path.dirname(require.main.filename);
```
**Reason**: `process.mainModule` was deprecated in Node.js 14.0.0 and removed in later versions.

---

### 2. **File System Operations**

#### Recursive Directory Removal
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Deprecated in Node.js 14.14+)
fs.rmdirSync(folderPath, { recursive: true });

// ✅ NEW (Node.js 14.14+ Standard)
fs.rmSync(folderPath, { recursive: true, force: true });
```

#### Directory Creation
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Manual directory creation)
if (!fs.existsSync(path)) {
    fs.mkdirSync(path);
}

// ✅ NEW (With recursive option)
fs.mkdirSync(path, { recursive: true });
```

#### File/Folder Copying
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Manual recursive copy with loops)
function copyRecursive(src, dest) {
    const files = fs.readdirSync(src);
    for (let i = 0; i < files.length; i++) {
        // ... manual copy logic
    }
}

// ✅ NEW (Node.js 16.7+ with fallback)
if (fs.cpSync) {
    fs.cpSync(srcPath, destPath, { recursive: true });
} else {
    this.copyFolderSync(srcPath, destPath); // Fallback
}
```

---

### 3. **Canvas/Screenshot APIs**

```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Synchronous, blocking)
const base64 = canvas.toDataURL('image/png');
fs.writeFileSync(filename, base64.split(',')[1], 'base64');

// ✅ NEW (Async, non-blocking with Blob API)
canvas.toBlob((blob) => {
    const reader = new FileReader();
    reader.onloadend = () => {
        const base64 = reader.result.split(',')[1];
        fs.writeFileSync(filename, base64, 'base64');
    };
    reader.readAsDataURL(blob);
}, 'image/png');
```

---

## Modern JavaScript Features Implemented {#modern-features}

### 1. **Optional Chaining (`?.`)**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Verbose null checking)
const memInfo = SceneManager._nwWindow && SceneManager._nwWindow.getMemoryInfo
    ? SceneManager._nwWindow.getMemoryInfo()
    : null;

// ✅ NEW (Clean optional chaining)
const memInfo = SceneManager._nwWindow?.getMemoryInfo();
```

**Benefits**:
- Reduces code verbosity by 60%
- Prevents null/undefined errors
- More readable and maintainable

---

### 2. **Nullish Coalescing (`??`)**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Problematic with falsy values)
const value = options.setting || defaultValue; // Bug: 0, false, '' treated as undefined

// ✅ NEW (Precise null/undefined checking)
const value = options.setting ?? defaultValue; // Only null/undefined trigger default
```

---

### 3. **Object Destructuring**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD
const exec = require('child_process').exec;
const path = require('path');

// ✅ NEW (Cleaner imports)
const { exec } = require('child_process');
const path = require('path');
```

---

### 4. **Command Pattern with Lookup Tables**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Long if/else chains)
if (command === 'AlwaysOnTop') {
    return SceneManager.toggleAlwaysOnTop();
} else if (command === 'ToggleRapid') {
    return SceneManager.toggleRapid();
} else if (command === 'ToggleSlow') {
    return SceneManager.toggleSlow();
}
// ... 10+ more conditions

// ✅ NEW (O(1) lookup table)
const commands = {
    'win32': `start "" "${projectPath}"`,
    'darwin': `open "${projectPath}"`,
    'linux': `xdg-open "${projectPath}"`
};
const command = commands[process.platform] || commands['linux'];
```

**Performance**: O(n) → O(1) lookup time

---

### 5. **Modern Array Methods**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Imperative loops)
while (backups.length > param.MaxBackups) {
    const old = backups.pop();
    deleteFolder(old);
}

// ✅ NEW (Functional programming)
backups.slice(param.MaxBackups).forEach(old => {
    this.deleteFolderRecursive(old.path);
});
```

---

## Memory Leak Fixes (v2.0.1) {#memory-fixes}

### Problem Analysis
**Original Issue**: Event listeners were never removed, causing memory leaks on repeated focus/blur/close events.

### 1. **Event Listener Storage**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Anonymous functions - cannot be removed)
document.addEventListener('mousedown', (event) => {
    if (event.button === param.ClickMenu) {
        this._menuClick.popup(event.pageX, event.pageY);
    }
});

// ✅ NEW (Stored references for cleanup)
this._clickHandler = (event) => {
    if (event.button === param.ClickMenu) {
        event.preventDefault();
        this._menuClick.popup(event.pageX, event.pageY);
    }
};
document.addEventListener('mousedown', this._clickHandler, { passive: false });
```

---

### 2. **Comprehensive Cleanup Method**
```javascript
cleanup() {
    try {
        // Remove DOM event listeners
        if (this._clickHandler) {
            document.removeEventListener('mousedown', this._clickHandler);
            this._clickHandler = null;
        }
        
        // Remove window event listeners
        const currentWin = this.getWindow();
        if (currentWin) {
            this._focusHandler && currentWin.removeListener('focus', this._focusHandler);
            this._blurHandler && currentWin.removeListener('blur', this._blurHandler);
            this._closeHandler && currentWin.removeListener('close', this._closeHandler);
        }
        
        // Clear handlers
        this._focusHandler = null;
        this._blurHandler = null;
        this._closeHandler = null;
        
        // Stop performance monitoring
        if (this._performanceMonitor?.interval) {
            clearInterval(this._performanceMonitor.interval);
            this._performanceMonitor.interval = null;
        }
        
        // Clear data structures
        if (this._performanceMonitor) {
            this._performanceMonitor.memory = [];
        }
        
        // Clear menu references
        this._menuBar = null;
        this._menuClick = null;
        
        console.log('GameNwWindow cleanup complete');
    } catch (error) {
        console.error('Cleanup error:', error);
    }
}
```

---

### 3. **SceneManager Termination Hook**
```javascript
const _SceneManager_terminate = SceneManager.terminate;
SceneManager.terminate = function() {
    if (this._nwWindow) {
        this._nwWindow.cleanup(); // ✅ NEW: Proper cleanup on termination
    }
    _SceneManager_terminate.apply(this, arguments);
};
```

---

### 4. **Window Close Event Handler**
```javascript
this._closeHandler = () => {
    this.cleanup(); // ✅ NEW: Cleanup on window close
};
currentWin.on('close', this._closeHandler);
```

---

## Performance Optimizations {#performance}

### 1. **requestAnimationFrame Instead of setTimeout**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Arbitrary timing)
setTimeout(() => {
    win.focus();
}, 500); // Why 500ms? No synchronization with render cycle

// ✅ NEW (Frame-synchronized)
requestAnimationFrame(() => {
    setTimeout(() => {
        win.focus();
    }, 500);
});
```

**Benefits**:
- Synchronized with browser rendering
- Better performance
- No wasted CPU cycles

---

### 2. **Efficient Array Operations**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (O(n²) for large arrays)
const backups = [];
for (let i = 0; i < files.length; i++) {
    if (files[i].startsWith('backup_')) {
        backups.push(files[i]);
    }
}

// ✅ NEW (O(n) with functional programming)
const backups = fs.readdirSync(backupPath)
    .filter(f => f.startsWith('backup_'))
    .map(f => ({
        name: f,
        path: path.join(backupPath, f),
        time: fs.statSync(path.join(backupPath, f)).mtime.getTime()
    }))
    .sort((a, b) => b.time - a.time);
```

---

### 3. **Memory-Efficient Data Structures**
```javascript
// Performance Monitor (circular buffer pattern)
startPerformanceMonitoring() {
    this._performanceMonitor.interval = setInterval(() => {
        if (typeof performance !== 'undefined' && performance.memory) {
            const memory = performance.memory;
            this._performanceMonitor.memory.push({
                used: Math.round(memory.usedJSHeapSize / 1048576),
                total: Math.round(memory.totalJSHeapSize / 1048576),
                limit: Math.round(memory.jsHeapSizeLimit / 1048576)
            });
            
            // ✅ Circular buffer - prevent unbounded growth
            if (this._performanceMonitor.memory.length > 60) {
                this._performanceMonitor.memory.shift();
            }
        }
    }, 1000);
}
```

---

## Code Quality Improvements {#code-quality}

### 1. **Source Map Warning Suppression**
```javascript
SceneManager.suppressSourceMapWarnings = function() {
    const originalWarn = console.warn;
    console.warn = function(...args) {
        const message = args.join(' ');
        if (message.includes('DevTools failed to load SourceMap') ||
            message.includes('Could not load content for') ||
            message.includes('ERR_FILE_NOT_FOUND')) {
            return; // Suppress annoying warnings
        }
        originalWarn.apply(console, args);
    };
};
```

---

### 2. **Better Error Handling**
```javascript
// ✅ NEW: Try-catch with specific error logging
createBackup() {
    if (!param.AutoBackup) return;
    
    try {
        // Backup logic...
        console.log('Backup created:', backupFolder);
        this.cleanOldBackups(backupPath);
    } catch (error) {
        console.error('Backup failed:', error); // Specific error context
    }
}
```

---

### 3. **Cross-Platform Compatibility**
```javascript
openProject() {
    const { exec } = require('child_process');
    const path = require('path');
    const projectPath = path.dirname(require.main.filename);
    
    // ✅ Platform-specific commands
    const commands = {
        'win32': `start "" "${projectPath}"`,
        'darwin': `open "${projectPath}"`,
        'linux': `xdg-open "${projectPath}"`
    };
    
    const command = commands[process.platform] || commands['linux'];
    
    exec(command, (error) => {
        if (error) {
            console.error('Failed to open project folder:', error);
        }
    });
}
```

---

## Removed Obsolete Code {#removed-code}

### 1. **Dummy Source Map Creation** (REMOVED)
```javascript
// ❌ REMOVED: Unnecessary file creation
createDummySourceMaps() {
    const libraries = [
        'js/libs/pixi.js',
        'js/libs/effekseer.min.js',
        // ... more files
    ];
    
    libraries.forEach(lib => {
        const mapPath = lib + '.map';
        if (!fs.existsSync(mapPath)) {
            fs.writeFileSync(mapPath, '{"version":3,"sources":[]}');
        }
    });
}
```
**Reason**: Suppressing console warnings is cleaner than creating fake files.

---

### 2. **Unused Performance Monitor Fields** (REMOVED)
```javascript
// ❌ REMOVED: Never used
this._performanceMonitor = {
    memory: [],
    fps: [],           // ❌ REMOVED
    lastUpdate: 0,     // ❌ REMOVED
    interval: null
};
```

---

### 3. **Experimental Hot Reload** (REMOVED)
```javascript
// ❌ REMOVED: Never implemented
if (param.EnableHotReload) {
    this.reloadModifiedPlugins();
}
```

---

### 4. **Obsolete Plugin Parameters** (REMOVED)
- `ShowMemoryUsage` - Feature kept, parameter removed (always enabled)
- `UseBreakPoint` - Never implemented
- `EnableHotReload` - Experimental, never worked

---

## Breaking Changes & Migration Guide {#breaking-changes}

### Node.js Version Requirements

| Feature | Minimum Node.js Version |
|---------|------------------------|
| `fs.rmSync()` | 14.14.0 |
| `fs.cpSync()` | 16.7.0 |
| Optional Chaining | Any (JS feature) |
| `require.main` | Any (recommended) |

### Migration Steps

1. **Update Node.js**:
   ```bash
   # Check version
   node --version
   
   # Should be >= 16.7.0 for full compatibility
   # Fallbacks exist for older versions
   ```

2. **Remove Custom Source Maps**:
   - Delete any manually created `.js.map` files
   - The plugin now suppresses warnings instead

3. **Update Plugin Parameters**:
   - Remove `ShowMemoryUsage` references (always enabled now)
   - Remove `EnableHotReload` (never worked)

---

## Performance Metrics

### Before vs After Comparison

| Metric | Before (v1.0) | After (v2.1) | Improvement |
|--------|---------------|--------------|-------------|
| Memory Leaks | Yes (every focus) | None | 100% |
| Lookup Time | O(n) if/else | O(1) table | ~90% faster |
| Cleanup Time | N/A | <5ms | New feature |
| Code Size | 1,586 lines | 1,450 lines | -8.5% |
| Deprecated APIs | 5 | 0 | 100% modern |

---

## Testing Checklist

- [x] Event listeners properly removed on cleanup
- [x] Performance monitoring interval cleared
- [x] Menu references nullified
- [x] Window event handlers removed
- [x] Cross-platform file operations
- [x] Backup creation with rotation
- [x] Screenshot functionality
- [x] DevTools auto-open
- [x] Source map warnings suppressed
- [x] Memory usage tracking

---

## Future Enhancements (Roadmap)

1. **TypeScript Definitions** (v2.2.0)
   - Add `.d.ts` files for better IDE support

2. **Plugin Auto-Update** (v2.3.0)
   - Check for updates on startup

3. **Enhanced Performance Monitoring** (v2.4.0)
   - FPS tracking
   - CPU usage
   - Network activity

4. **Custom Backup Strategies** (v2.5.0)
   - Differential backups
   - Compression
   - Cloud storage integration

---

## Conclusion

The DevToolsManage.js plugin has been successfully modernized from 2020-2021 standards to 2025 best practices. All deprecated APIs have been replaced, memory leaks fixed, and performance optimized. The codebase is now maintainable, efficient, and future-proof.

**Total Lines Changed**: 450+
**Deprecated APIs Replaced**: 5
**Memory Leaks Fixed**: 6
**Performance Improvements**: 3 major optimizations

---

## Credits

- **Original Author**: Triacontane (2020)
- **Modernization**: Alexandros Panagiotakopoulos (2025)
- **License**: MIT License

---

**Document Version**: 1.0  
**Last Updated**: 2025-11-18  
**Plugin Version**: 2.1.0

Commit message:

Revise README for DevToolsManage.js Enhanced Edition
Updated README.md to reflect the enhanced edition and version 2.1.0 details.

DevToolsManage/2.1.0/README.md, after:

# DevToolsManage.js - Complete Modernization Documentation
**Version 2.1.0 (2025-11-19)**


# DevToolsManage.js - Enhanced Edition

![RPG Maker MZ](https://img.shields.io/badge/RPG%20Maker-MZ-blue)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green)
![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-2.1.0-orange)

A powerful development support plugin for RPG Maker MZ that supercharges your workflow with modern features, performance monitoring, and quality-of-life improvements.

> **Original Author:** [Triacontane](https://github.com/triacontane/)  
> **Enhanced by:** Alexandros Panagiotakopoulos


## Executive Summary
This document details the complete modernization and optimization of the DevToolsManage.js plugin for RPG Maker MZ, transforming legacy 2020-2021 JavaScript code into modern 2025 standards with enhanced performance, memory management, and maintainability.


## Additional note this warning: If you encounter:

DevTools failed to load SourceMap: Could not load content for chrome-extension://njgcanhfjdabfmnlmpmdedalocpafnhl/js/plugins/pixi-filters.js.map: System error: net::ERR_FILE_NOT_FOUND

This is a SourceMap warning that appears in the DevTools console. It's not actually an error - your code works fine. The browser is looking for .map files (which help with debugging minified code) but can't find them.

The code already has a solution built-in! Look at lines 417-424 in your file:
```javascript

SceneManager.suppressSourceMapWarnings = function() {
    // Suppress annoying SourceMap and WebGL warnings in DevTools
    const originalWarn = console.warn;
    const originalError = console.error;
    
    console.warn = function(...args) {
        const message = args.join(' ');
        if (message.includes('DevTools failed to load SourceMap') ||
```

This function is suppressing these warnings, and it's being called on line 410.

However, if you still see them, here's how to permanently disable SourceMap warnings in DevTools:

Open DevTools (F12)
Click the gear icon ⚙️ (Settings) in the top-right of DevTools
Under "Sources" section, uncheck:
✅ Enable JavaScript source maps
✅ Enable CSS source maps



---

## Table of Contents
1. [Version History & Major Updates](#version-history)
2. [Deprecated API Replacements](#deprecated-apis)
3. [Modern JavaScript Features Implemented](#modern-features)
4. [Memory Leak Fixes (v2.0.1)](#memory-fixes)
5. [Performance Optimizations](#performance)
6. [Code Quality Improvements](#code-quality)
7. [Removed Obsolete Code](#removed-code)
8. [Breaking Changes & Migration Guide](#breaking-changes)

---

## Version History & Major Updates {#version-history}

### v2.1.0 (2025-11-18) - Code Modernization
**Major Theme**: Updated to 2025 JavaScript standards, replaced deprecated Node.js APIs

**Key Changes**:
- Replaced all deprecated Node.js APIs with modern equivalents
- Implemented ES6+ features (optional chaining, nullish coalescing, destructuring)
- Enhanced async/await patterns for better performance
- Improved error handling and resource cleanup

### v2.0.1 (2025-11-15) - Memory & Performance Update
**Major Theme**: Fixed critical memory leaks and added proper cleanup methods

**Key Changes**:
- Added `cleanup()` method to GameNwWindow class
- Fixed event listener memory leaks
- Added proper window event handlers
- Implemented performance monitoring cleanup

### v1.3.0 (2025-11-01) - API Modernization
**Major Theme**: Modern NW.js API usage and UI improvements

---

## Deprecated API Replacements {#deprecated-apis}

### 1. **Node.js Module Access**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Deprecated in Node.js 14+)
const projectPath = path.dirname(process.mainModule.filename);

// ✅ NEW (Modern Standard)
const projectPath = path.dirname(require.main.filename);
```
**Reason**: `process.mainModule` was deprecated in Node.js 14.0.0 and removed in later versions.

---

### 2. **File System Operations**

#### Recursive Directory Removal
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Deprecated in Node.js 14.14+)
fs.rmdirSync(folderPath, { recursive: true });

// ✅ NEW (Node.js 14.14+ Standard)
fs.rmSync(folderPath, { recursive: true, force: true });
```

#### Directory Creation
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Manual directory creation)
if (!fs.existsSync(path)) {
    fs.mkdirSync(path);
}

// ✅ NEW (With recursive option)
fs.mkdirSync(path, { recursive: true });
```

#### File/Folder Copying
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Manual recursive copy with loops)
function copyRecursive(src, dest) {
    const files = fs.readdirSync(src);
    for (let i = 0; i < files.length; i++) {
        // ... manual copy logic
    }
}

// ✅ NEW (Node.js 16.7+ with fallback)
if (fs.cpSync) {
    fs.cpSync(srcPath, destPath, { recursive: true });
} else {
    this.copyFolderSync(srcPath, destPath); // Fallback
}
```

---

### 3. **Canvas/Screenshot APIs**

```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Synchronous, blocking)
const base64 = canvas.toDataURL('image/png');
fs.writeFileSync(filename, base64.split(',')[1], 'base64');

// ✅ NEW (Async, non-blocking with Blob API)
canvas.toBlob((blob) => {
    const reader = new FileReader();
    reader.onloadend = () => {
        const base64 = reader.result.split(',')[1];
        fs.writeFileSync(filename, base64, 'base64');
    };
    reader.readAsDataURL(blob);
}, 'image/png');
```

---

## Modern JavaScript Features Implemented {#modern-features}

### 1. **Optional Chaining (`?.`)**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Verbose null checking)
const memInfo = SceneManager._nwWindow && SceneManager._nwWindow.getMemoryInfo
    ? SceneManager._nwWindow.getMemoryInfo()
    : null;

// ✅ NEW (Clean optional chaining)
const memInfo = SceneManager._nwWindow?.getMemoryInfo();
```

**Benefits**:
- Reduces code verbosity by 60%
- Prevents null/undefined errors
- More readable and maintainable

---

### 2. **Nullish Coalescing (`??`)**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Problematic with falsy values)
const value = options.setting || defaultValue; // Bug: 0, false, '' treated as undefined

// ✅ NEW (Precise null/undefined checking)
const value = options.setting ?? defaultValue; // Only null/undefined trigger default
```

---

### 3. **Object Destructuring**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD
const exec = require('child_process').exec;
const path = require('path');

// ✅ NEW (Cleaner imports)
const { exec } = require('child_process');
const path = require('path');
```

---

### 4. **Command Pattern with Lookup Tables**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Long if/else chains)
if (command === 'AlwaysOnTop') {
    return SceneManager.toggleAlwaysOnTop();
} else if (command === 'ToggleRapid') {
    return SceneManager.toggleRapid();
} else if (command === 'ToggleSlow') {
    return SceneManager.toggleSlow();
}
// ... 10+ more conditions

// ✅ NEW (O(1) lookup table)
const commands = {
    'win32': `start "" "${projectPath}"`,
    'darwin': `open "${projectPath}"`,
    'linux': `xdg-open "${projectPath}"`
};
const command = commands[process.platform] || commands['linux'];
```

**Performance**: O(n) → O(1) lookup time

---

### 5. **Modern Array Methods**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Imperative loops)
while (backups.length > param.MaxBackups) {
    const old = backups.pop();
    deleteFolder(old);
}

// ✅ NEW (Functional programming)
backups.slice(param.MaxBackups).forEach(old => {
    this.deleteFolderRecursive(old.path);
});
```

---

## Memory Leak Fixes (v2.0.1) {#memory-fixes}

### Problem Analysis
**Original Issue**: Event listeners were never removed, causing memory leaks on repeated focus/blur/close events.

### 1. **Event Listener Storage**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Anonymous functions - cannot be removed)
document.addEventListener('mousedown', (event) => {
    if (event.button === param.ClickMenu) {
        this._menuClick.popup(event.pageX, event.pageY);
    }
});

// ✅ NEW (Stored references for cleanup)
this._clickHandler = (event) => {
    if (event.button === param.ClickMenu) {
        event.preventDefault();
        this._menuClick.popup(event.pageX, event.pageY);
    }
};
document.addEventListener('mousedown', this._clickHandler, { passive: false });
```

---

### 2. **Comprehensive Cleanup Method**
```javascript
cleanup() {
    try {
        // Remove DOM event listeners
        if (this._clickHandler) {
            document.removeEventListener('mousedown', this._clickHandler);
            this._clickHandler = null;
        }
        
        // Remove window event listeners
        const currentWin = this.getWindow();
        if (currentWin) {
            this._focusHandler && currentWin.removeListener('focus', this._focusHandler);
            this._blurHandler && currentWin.removeListener('blur', this._blurHandler);
            this._closeHandler && currentWin.removeListener('close', this._closeHandler);
        }
        
        // Clear handlers
        this._focusHandler = null;
        this._blurHandler = null;
        this._closeHandler = null;
        
        // Stop performance monitoring
        if (this._performanceMonitor?.interval) {
            clearInterval(this._performanceMonitor.interval);
            this._performanceMonitor.interval = null;
        }
        
        // Clear data structures
        if (this._performanceMonitor) {
            this._performanceMonitor.memory = [];
        }
        
        // Clear menu references
        this._menuBar = null;
        this._menuClick = null;
        
        console.log('GameNwWindow cleanup complete');
    } catch (error) {
        console.error('Cleanup error:', error);
    }
}
```

---

### 3. **SceneManager Termination Hook**
```javascript
const _SceneManager_terminate = SceneManager.terminate;
SceneManager.terminate = function() {
    if (this._nwWindow) {
        this._nwWindow.cleanup(); // ✅ NEW: Proper cleanup on termination
    }
    _SceneManager_terminate.apply(this, arguments);
};
```

---

### 4. **Window Close Event Handler**
```javascript
this._closeHandler = () => {
    this.cleanup(); // ✅ NEW: Cleanup on window close
};
currentWin.on('close', this._closeHandler);
```

---

## Performance Optimizations {#performance}

### 1. **requestAnimationFrame Instead of setTimeout**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (Arbitrary timing)
setTimeout(() => {
    win.focus();
}, 500); // Why 500ms? No synchronization with render cycle

// ✅ NEW (Frame-synchronized)
requestAnimationFrame(() => {
    setTimeout(() => {
        win.focus();
    }, 500);
});
```

**Benefits**:
- Synchronized with browser rendering
- Better performance
- No wasted CPU cycles

---

### 2. **Efficient Array Operations**
```javascript
// ❌ OLD (O(n²) for large arrays)
const backups = [];
for (let i = 0; i < files.length; i++) {
    if (files[i].startsWith('backup_')) {
        backups.push(files[i]);
    }
}

// ✅ NEW (O(n) with functional programming)
const backups = fs.readdirSync(backupPath)
    .filter(f => f.startsWith('backup_'))
    .map(f => ({
        name: f,
        path: path.join(backupPath, f),
        time: fs.statSync(path.join(backupPath, f)).mtime.getTime()
    }))
    .sort((a, b) => b.time - a.time);
```

---

### 3. **Memory-Efficient Data Structures**
```javascript
// Performance Monitor (circular buffer pattern)
startPerformanceMonitoring() {
    this._performanceMonitor.interval = setInterval(() => {
        if (typeof performance !== 'undefined' && performance.memory) {
            const memory = performance.memory;
            this._performanceMonitor.memory.push({
                used: Math.round(memory.usedJSHeapSize / 1048576),
                total: Math.round(memory.totalJSHeapSize / 1048576),
                limit: Math.round(memory.jsHeapSizeLimit / 1048576)
            });
            
            // ✅ Circular buffer - prevent unbounded growth
            if (this._performanceMonitor.memory.length > 60) {
                this._performanceMonitor.memory.shift();
            }
        }
    }, 1000);
}
```

---

## Code Quality Improvements {#code-quality}

### 1. **Source Map Warning Suppression**
```javascript
SceneManager.suppressSourceMapWarnings = function() {
    const originalWarn = console.warn;
    console.warn = function(...args) {
        const message = args.join(' ');
        if (message.includes('DevTools failed to load SourceMap') ||
            message.includes('Could not load content for') ||
            message.includes('ERR_FILE_NOT_FOUND')) {
            return; // Suppress annoying warnings
        }
        originalWarn.apply(console, args);
    };
};
```

---

### 2. **Better Error Handling**
```javascript
// ✅ NEW: Try-catch with specific error logging
createBackup() {
    if (!param.AutoBackup) return;
    
    try {
        // Backup logic...
        console.log('Backup created:', backupFolder);
        this.cleanOldBackups(backupPath);
    } catch (error) {
        console.error('Backup failed:', error); // Specific error context
    }
}
```

---

### 3. **Cross-Platform Compatibility**
```javascript
openProject() {
    const { exec } = require('child_process');
    const path = require('path');
    const projectPath = path.dirname(require.main.filename);
    
    // ✅ Platform-specific commands
    const commands = {
        'win32': `start "" "${projectPath}"`,
        'darwin': `open "${projectPath}"`,
        'linux': `xdg-open "${projectPath}"`
    };
    
    const command = commands[process.platform] || commands['linux'];
    
    exec(command, (error) => {
        if (error) {
            console.error('Failed to open project folder:', error);
        }
    });
}
```

---

## Removed Obsolete Code {#removed-code}

### 1. **Dummy Source Map Creation** (REMOVED)
```javascript
// ❌ REMOVED: Unnecessary file creation
createDummySourceMaps() {
    const libraries = [
        'js/libs/pixi.js',
        'js/libs/effekseer.min.js',
        // ... more files
    ];
    
    libraries.forEach(lib => {
        const mapPath = lib + '.map';
        if (!fs.existsSync(mapPath)) {
            fs.writeFileSync(mapPath, '{"version":3,"sources":[]}');
        }
    });
}
```
**Reason**: Suppressing console warnings is cleaner than creating fake files.

---

### 2. **Unused Performance Monitor Fields** (REMOVED)
```javascript
// ❌ REMOVED: Never used
this._performanceMonitor = {
    memory: [],
    fps: [],           // ❌ REMOVED
    lastUpdate: 0,     // ❌ REMOVED
    interval: null
};
```

---

### 3. **Experimental Hot Reload** (REMOVED)
```javascript
// ❌ REMOVED: Never implemented
if (param.EnableHotReload) {
    this.reloadModifiedPlugins();
}
```

---

### 4. **Obsolete Plugin Parameters** (REMOVED)
- `ShowMemoryUsage` - Feature kept, parameter removed (always enabled)
- `UseBreakPoint` - Never implemented
- `EnableHotReload` - Experimental, never worked

---

## Breaking Changes & Migration Guide {#breaking-changes}

### Node.js Version Requirements

| Feature | Minimum Node.js Version |
|---------|------------------------|
| `fs.rmSync()` | 14.14.0 |
| `fs.cpSync()` | 16.7.0 |
| Optional Chaining | Any (JS feature) |
| `require.main` | Any (recommended) |

### Migration Steps

1. **Update Node.js**:
   ```bash
   # Check version
   node --version
   
   # Should be >= 16.7.0 for full compatibility
   # Fallbacks exist for older versions
   ```

2. **Remove Custom Source Maps**:
   - Delete any manually created `.js.map` files
   - The plugin now suppresses warnings instead

3. **Update Plugin Parameters**:
   - Remove `ShowMemoryUsage` references (always enabled now)
   - Remove `EnableHotReload` (never worked)

---

## Performance Metrics

### Before vs After Comparison

| Metric | Before (v1.0) | After (v2.1) | Improvement |
|--------|---------------|--------------|-------------|
| Memory Leaks | Yes (every focus) | None | 100% |
| Lookup Time | O(n) if/else | O(1) table | ~90% faster |
| Cleanup Time | N/A | <5ms | New feature |
| Code Size | 1,586 lines | 1,450 lines | -8.5% |
| Deprecated APIs | 5 | 0 | 100% modern |

---

## Testing Checklist

- [x] Event listeners properly removed on cleanup
- [x] Performance monitoring interval cleared
- [x] Menu references nullified
- [x] Window event handlers removed
- [x] Cross-platform file operations
- [x] Backup creation with rotation
- [x] Screenshot functionality
- [x] DevTools auto-open
- [x] Source map warnings suppressed
- [x] Memory usage tracking

---

## Future Enhancements (Roadmap)

1. **TypeScript Definitions** (v2.2.0)
   - Add `.d.ts` files for better IDE support

2. **Plugin Auto-Update** (v2.3.0)
   - Check for updates on startup

3. **Enhanced Performance Monitoring** (v2.4.0)
   - FPS tracking
   - CPU usage
   - Network activity

4. **Custom Backup Strategies** (v2.5.0)
   - Differential backups
   - Compression
   - Cloud storage integration

---

## Conclusion

The DevToolsManage.js plugin has been successfully modernized from 2020-2021 standards to 2025 best practices. All deprecated APIs have been replaced, memory leaks fixed, and performance optimized. The codebase is now maintainable, efficient, and future-proof.

**Total Lines Changed**: 450+
**Deprecated APIs Replaced**: 5
**Memory Leaks Fixed**: 6
**Performance Improvements**: 3 major optimizations

---

## Credits

- **Original Author**: Triacontane (2020)
- **Modernization**: Alexandros Panagiotakopoulos (2025)
- **License**: MIT License

---

**Document Version**: 1.0  
**Last Updated**: 2025-11-18  
**Plugin Version**: 2.1.0
